# iWorkout
This is the Android Studio version of iWorkout project. In this project, we have used WICED Sense to collect real-time sensor data, and built Bluetooth connection between WICED Sense and Android smart phone. In the Android application, we have implement DSP algorithm to analyze the sensor data, and the exercise data would be sent to the server deployed on EC2 server.

When a user launched the Android application, Register Activity would be created. In this activity, user could register a new account or log in his/her own account. If the user logged in the account, his/her email and password would be stored in Shared Preference for HTTP connection verification. After logging in, Profile Activity would be created. This activity included four fragments, separately showing the user’s exercise history, the times and weights of his/her ten most recent exercises, similar user suggestions, and exercise recommendations based on his/her exercise history. If user wanted to start exercising, he/she could click on the floating button or the recommendation exercise fragment to start Exercise Selected Activity. This is a ListActivity and the user could choose the exercise he/she wanted to do in this activity, and then Do Exercise Activity would be created.

The Android application collected data from WICED Sense through Bluetooth connection. Before doing exercise, the user should choose WICED Sense kit and attached the device on corresponding exercise machine. If the user was prepared to do exercise, he/she could click on the start button to start Sense Manager Service. The service could enable Bluetooth connection with WICED Sense, and get raw data per 100 milliseconds. Sensor Data Parser class provided function to read acceleration and gyroscope data from raw data. Moreover, DSP methods was used to preprocess this real-time data and count times during every exercise. The App view was updated when each count was detected and processed. After finish exercising, the exercise data would be posted to the AWS EC2 server.
